# CS-255-System-Analysis-and-Design

  Our client was DriverPass owner Liam, and his IT officer Ian. They wanted to design a cloud based online system that would help users pass their drivers license test. They would do this through live driving session, practice tests, and study guides with the lates DMV requirements and information. This system would be a web-based system that users would access through a device with internet access and log in with username and password.
  I feel I was able to interpret the system requirements based on the information given in the transcript of the conversation between Liam, Ian, Jennifer, and Sam. Reading thought the transcript was interesting as it did take a bit of reading between the lines to try and make the best judgment for what the client wanted for their system. 
  I would choose to improve my use case diagram. Even though it did get the job done as far as presenting the different use cases for the DriverPass system, I do think it could have been a bit more consolidated. It is a bit hard to understand what actors can perform what tasks. I would  like to adjust it a bit to make things a bit clearer for anyone looking at the diagram. This would be good practice for diagrams I will have to work on in the future, I would like my use case to get the message across without interpretation from myself. Additionally, I would adjust the different actors for the system as some are not clear why they are there. I would most likely remove the “cloud server” actor as it does not interact with the system in the way the other actors do. The could server is more of a host for the system rather than interacting with it.
  Reading through the interview transcript I was able to get a good understanding of  what Liam wanted for DriverPass. I made sure to highlight areas where what the owner wanted was blatantly clear, and also highlighted areas that took a bit more interpretation. From there I made sure that the most important aspects of the system were addressed first. For me, I found these to be users’ ability to create a profile, and schedule driving session. I prioritized these areas and then started to add on the other areas that were mentioned such as downloading usage reports, changing passwords, and updating employee information. It is important to capture the needs of the client in the system design because ultimately, this is not our product. We are working for the client to build them the system they envisioned. If we were to go off on our own and make the system as we saw fit, it may not meet the needs of the client. This is just bad business. Implementing the ideas of the client into the system design shows that we were attentive and took what they were saying seriously. 
  I think my approach to designing software would depend on the project. If it were a totally new system, I would use a top-down approach. This means I could look at the system as a whole and break it down into smaller subsets. This would make it easier for a team to follow along with the design of each new function. If the project were to improve or add onto an existing system, I would use the bottom-up approach. In this approach I would use components of the existing system to build upon it. I essentially would not be starting form scratch and instead, working from a stripped-down version of an already existing system. 
  I find the live interview to be the best way to gather information from the client. Being prepared with our own list of questions going in and taking the time to prep for the interview go a long way in showing the client that we are truly interested in their product. Keeping things conversational is another great way to get more information out of the client. The more we know about the system, the better design we can make. As well, utilizing object-oriented design for the system would be something I would like to use in the future. I find this easier for a team to understand the different functions of the system while making the coding part easier to understand as well since classes, attributes and functions are generally used to create this type of diagram. We would start with a basic look at the different functions of the system. From there, we would add on attributes for each function. And finally, we would add how functions will perform actions. This can also help  with weeding our redundant areas of the initial design. I would encourage multiple iterations of the design to make sure we are capturing all the required components of the system while eliminating any redundancy.

